# Research Questions

These are open questions we're formally considering this quarter. That doesn't mean we'll
find an answer, but we do want to advance our understanding of the problem and potential
solutions.

Most of our research is done through engineering, either by taking on small projects or by
simply executing other work in a way that also advanced our research.

# IPLD as a Project

1. What is "in the IPLD project" vs "built on IPLD?"
   * We do not currently have a clear line separatign what is "in" from what is "out."
   * We may want to reduce scope to what we believe has solidified **both** conceptually
     **and** practically. For instance, the Data Model has solidified conceptually and practically
     (many specs and implementations rely on a common understanding), while Advanced Layouts have
     solidified conceptually but not practically (different implementations have taken different
     approaches with different ideas for how to ensure compatibility).

# Selectors

1. How do Selectors interact with ADLs?

# WASM

WebAssembly may be a "game changer" for IPLD in the future because having a widely agreed upon 
secure compute standard means we can *safely* compile compute logic to binary and content address it.

The biggest challenge has been figuring out exactly *when* WASM might be ready for us to build on. There
are various standards in various states of development and it's not clear how many of them we need in order
to build parts of IPLD on WASM.

The following open questions are being considered.

1. Should Rust be our target language for WASM?
   * If we end up moving to WASM for reference implementations (see below), the performance of Rust
     bindings across langauges is also relevant because it's likely better than the perf
     of WASM bindings.
2. Should we build reference implementations in a language that compiles well to WASM?
   * One big win here would be the abilty to write codecs that can be dynamically loaded
     from a DAG reference we ship with IPLD. Our current options are "ship every codec" or
     "ship no codecs and make developers configure them." This would offer a better third
     option of "ship with a configured minimal codec set and support dynamic loading of
     any other necessary codecs."
3. What does a "Data Model Bridge" look like in WASM?
   * Is it faster to just pass encoded binary from the host language to WASM, is it faster
     to use another serialization format, or is it faster to find a way to work with decoded
     data structures by reference?

# A better Block format

In the last few years we've learned a **lot** about block formats. In particular, we've had to deal with a lot
of block format details that only surface when you're building content addressed data structures. As a result,
we don't find any existing format particularly great and our ability to design a much better block format
continue to grow.

Rather than stop doing other work to design a new block format, we should collect good ideas for a future block
format as we realize and explore them.

1. Put all links in the block header. This allows would allow you to parse out the graph information without a full
   block parse.
2. Is it worth doing format specific compression?
   * Currently, compression is the responsibility of the transport and storage layer, which is fine for general
     purpose cases, but there may be opportunities for us to realize cheap and efficient compression in the block
     format itself because we know a lot about the contraints of the format.
